Global Computer Solutions (GCS) is an information technology consulting company with many offices located throughout the United States. To better manage its projects, GCS has contacted you to design a database for that system. The GCS database must support all of GCS’s operations and information requirements. 
The employees working for GCS have an employee ID, an employee last name, a middle initial, a first name, a region, and a date of hire. Each employee has many skills, and many employees have the same skill. Each skill has a skill ID, description, and rate of pay. GCS has many customers. Each customer has a customer ID, customer name, phone number, and region. GCS works by projects. A project is based on a contract between the customer and GCS to design, develop, and implement computerized solution. Each project has specific characteristics such as the project ID, a brief description, a project date, a project budget (total estimated cost of the project), and actual cost. 
The actual cost of the project is updated each Friday by adding that week’s cost (computed by multiplying the hours each employee worked by the rate of pay for that skill) to the actual cost. The customer to which the project belongs is determined and one employee is assigned as the manager of the project. The employee who is the manager of the project must complete a project schedule, which is, in effect, a design and development plan. For each plan, we must keep the plan number, type (design, or development), and time period. In the project schedule (or plan), the manager must determine the tasks that will be performed to take the project from beginning to end. Each task has a task ID, a brief task description, the task’s starting and ending dates, the types of skills needed, and the number of employees (with the required skills) required to complete the task. GCS pools all of its employees by region, and from this pool, employees are assigned to a specific task scheduled by the project manager. 
The project manager is assigned when the project is created and remains for the duration of the project. Each project is managed by one manager, and the manager is not entitled to manage more than one project at the same time. Using that information, GCS searches the employees who are located in the same region as the customer, matching the skills required and assigning them to the project task. Each project schedule task can have many employees assigned to it, and a given employee can work on multiple project tasks. However, an employee can work on only one project task at a time. Given all of the preceding information, you can see that the assignment associates an employee with a project task, using the project schedule. Therefore, to keep track of the assignment, you require the date assignment starts, and the date assignment ends. The hours an employee works are kept in a work log containing a record of the actual hours worked by an employee on a given assignment. 
The work log is a weekly form that the employee fills out at the end of each week (Friday) or at the end of each month. The form contains the date, the total hours worked that week (or up to the end of the month), and the number of the bill to which the work-log entry is charged. Obviously,each work-log entry can be related to only one bill. Finally, every 15 days, a bill is written and sent to the customer, totalling the hours worked on the project during that period. When GCS generates a bill, it uses the bill number to update the work-log entries that are part of that bill. In summary, a bill can refer to many work-log entries, and each work-log entry can be related to only one bill. 

Deliverables:
1. Design a database system using normalisation techniques and create an ERD diagram.
2. Develop a database system schema and implement the design system.
   State any assumptions that you have made and applied. 
   Create a set of tables and relation required for the system.
   Populate your tables with Software Company data sets.
3. Create queries and views based on every service requirement of the dataset.
4. Apply advanced database techniques.
   State any assumption that you have made and applied.
   Apply security measures – define users, assign privileges.


